<!-- Markdown text -->
<div align=center>

# Privacy in the Age of AI: 🔒🤖

## Navigating the Ethical Dimensions of Machine Learning 🌐

**As of 2023, almost 93% of the world owns a phone meaning we can connect to everyone, when ever, where ever - and that isn't only humans, that can be AI too.**


</div>


Given the rapid advancement of technology and AI, the increasing worry about what privacy we have in the world is now becoming more and more concerning. With AI being used in most technological advances at the moment, there are some key places AI are being used in, Surveillance systems, data privacy, and healthcare, these are just to name a few.

Ai is being used in surveillance systems all across the world. Ai is constantly learning and being trained to be more efficient at facial recognition to detect people's faces in a split second. This may be great for security purposes but is it really ethical to know someones every movement? AI's use is great for this purpose and can help society with anything and is especially helpful for crimes; however, it is breaching everyone's privacy. It is tracking everyone, where they go and at what time, it is getting very powerful. It is unethical for this AI database to store so much information about you without you even knowing it is happening. These AIs are still training every second meaning they are getting more powerful and even more information about you whenever you are in sight of a surveillance system. To make this more ethical, there should be some sort of basic consent towards this idea or AI needs to limit and balance the data storage, such as balancing the benefits to it and the negatives to it so it is more ethical for the public. There should be a warning and an explanation of what the data is being used for and where it is going.

Many technologies use AI for the collection and utilization of personal data to store and filter incoming data. When putting sensitive data and any sort of response into a website, AI collects and sorts the data for the ease of the website, meaning AI is reading every sensitive information. Users don't understand that their information like credit card information, personal information and is being passed/ filtered and checked through AI. Does this mean it is still your data or is AI breaching your data? This is unethical the use of AI to hold your information is a misuse of data and breaching your own privacy. This is also being done with no consent or information that AI will be doing this to your personal information. With AI accessing this data, AI is still learning and adding it to its database while learning your personal data to make AI stronger and even more unethical. This misuse of data breaches ethics and privacy on the internet and will continue to breach information more and more. 

Many different types of healthcare systems and workplaces are now moving to AI-based systems. These systems hold a person's medical history, personal information, treatment information and a lot more information that can be easily read by AI and passed on by AI. But AI can be very useful for diagnosing a patient's illness or helping with treatment. With the advancement of AI in the future we need to balance out the good and bad about AI to make it ethically right and still be helpful to people. Finding the balance between using AI for the benefit of a patient's treatment and diagnosis but also making sure it doesn't breach the patient's own rights and the patient understands that the data is going to be read by AI, it also needs to be secure to use so it cant be breached for data leaks and AI can use it for the benefits of AI. For AI to be fully implemented into healthcare systems and the workplace, AI needs to improve: the **privacy mechanism** - making the system more secure so information can't be leaked or read by AI, **consent of information** - so the patient or operator understand how it is working and what information can be read or passed by and they agree for AI to help, **Secure handling and being reliable** - there cant be any leaks or stealing of personal information and it has to be secure, but the AI also has to be trained well for the purpose of helping a patient it has to be reliable in giving the right information. The use of AI is both good and bad in the process of healthcare, meaning it can significantly help someone but it can also be a breach of privacy and be unethical. 